# Relevance of Using Machine Learning
The goal of this project is to predict lightning stroke densities from the World Wide Lightning Location Network (WWLLN) using a combination of meteorological variables from NASA and ECMWF products and aerosol concentrations from NASA’s MERRA2 reanalysis product. Given the research problem is to predict the amount of lightning quantitatively using a combination of input variables, this is a regression problem. 

This project will use a supervised learning approach. For this project, it is important for the input variables to be labeled, as the amount of lightning attributable to each input variable is being evaluated. Due to the complexity and non-linearity of the data, a neural network is planned to be used in order to efficiently evaluate trends and patterns. A neural network will be used opposed to a random forest model due to the scale of the data, as well as potential differences which may be caused by regional characteristics.

Using machine learning in this study will allow for an efficient approach to determine how lightning is impacted by both meteorological variables and aerosol concentrations. It is also likely that these effects are non-linear and the contribution of each variable may change throughout the different regions of the domain, so using machine learning will allow for investigation of different trends in different regions as well. Results from the machine learning algorithm could be implemented in climate and chemical models, as lightning is a key source of nitrogen oxides, and as such, has a large impact on the nitrogen cycle. Results can also be used to increase the accuracy of lightning prediction, which could be beneficial for wildfire prediction and preparation. 
